From hanselminutes.com. It's Hanselman. It's
a weekly discussion with web
developer on technologist and Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number two 84. Recorded
live Wednesday, September 14th, 2011, Port for
Hanselman, The most comprehensive suite
of components for windows forms
and asp.net web applications online
Www dot  dot com.
In this episode, Talks with
Nick ganja about building his
business. Zoc doc. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman and this
is another episode of Hansel
minutes. The startup series continues
today. We've got Nick Ganju
founder and CTO of Zoc
doc. How are you, sir?
Great. How's it going over
there? Very, very well. I
hear a little crowd noise
behind you. What a what
event? I'm actually a recruiting
here at the Stanford alumni
career fair here in Palo
Alto. Alright, cool. So you're
are you guys based in
the Bay area? No, we're
actually based in, in New York
city, but we, you know,
we're, we're very obsessive about
our hiring and, and so
we flew all the way
out here to do this
recruiting event. Very cool. Very
cool. So what's the elevator
pitch? What is your company?
Yeah, so it's basically a
website where you can come
and search for doctors. You
can read reviews, you can
search by your insurance and
more importantly, your insurance plan.
And, and then you can
book the doctors right online,
you know, similarly to the
way you would book an,
a, a reservation on open
table. Okay. So how do
people like do this now?
Like I think I usually
just search for pediatrician, Portland,
Oregon. And then I look
around for, I kind of
stumbled around looking for reviews
and I asked friends if
they think the guy's a
good guy or not. Yeah.
It's interesting. You know, as
our, as our SEO gets
better and better as you
Google those kinds of things,
you'll see our pages showing
up, but basically it would
still be hard if you
did it that way to
filter by your insurance plan.
And, you know, at SOC
doc, all the, all the
different doctors are aggregated one
place in the same format.
So there's all the reviews
you can see where they
all went to medical school,
you know, any papers they've
published and of course some
high quality photos of, of
them in their office. So
it, you know, I think
it's, it's just a much
better destination site to, to
make a decision about which
doctor you want to see
And do the doctors come
to you and fill out
these things? Is it like
LinkedIn for doctors? Are they
there? Or like, you know
how restaurants go into Google
places and they, they, they
put themselves in there and
they claim their space. And
how much of it's curated?
How much of it is
the doctor coming to you?
Yeah, the doctors. So the
business model is that the
doctors pay us to be
on the network. So they
pay us a flat fee,
a flat monthly fee, and,
and then we send them
new patients. So that's the,
you know, that's the basic
value proposition to the doctors.
So they basically come and
sign up with us and,
and they fill out their
own profiles and, and put
their own schedules, make their
own schedules available. So then
you make money from the
doctor. And then also during
the referral process. Yeah. I
mean the doctors pay us
a flat fee. It's not
per referral, but yeah. So,
so they just pay us
a flat monthly fee and,
and it's completely free for
patients like yourself to, you
know, if you were searching
for pediatricians and, and the
most important thing is you
can either, he can see
all the times and you
can book online. So, you
know, if they're free tomorrow
or you can find one
that's free, you know, during
evening hours, et cetera. I
see. So that's where it
gets interesting. So it's one
thing to be a dating
service for, for doctors where
you like, I'm you hook
me up with a doctor
and then our relationship is
over, but you said a
flat monthly fee, what's more
interesting is that you are
effectively their front end. You're
their appointment scheduler. And the
doctor, I assume, has some
package running in their office.
And then they synchronize with
your, with your assistant to
make sure that the times
are available and then booking
of appointments can actually happen.
Yeah, that's exactly right. So,
so we integrate to many
of the practice management systems
that doctors use today. So
we have this, you know,
this automated synchronized system. So,
so that their availability is
avail is, you know, correct
in real time on our
website, What kind of systems
are those? Like, what are,
what are these doctors running?
Are these things all running
clipper and like dos prompt
or what practice management system?
Yeah. It's interesting that you
asked that. I mean, most,
you know, a lot of
the practice managers systems are
very archaic, you know, to
be fair, a lot of
them have, have upgraded their
systems quite a bit, but
a lot of doctors don't
upgrade when the, you know,
when the vendors put out
new systems. So a lot
of these doctors on old
systems and, and, you know,
some of them are green
screen, et cetera. And, you
know, part of our engineering
efforts at Zoc doc is
to integrate to things that
aren't built, you know, in
a, you know, web 2.0
world, or, you know, there
there's, there's applications that store
things in, you know, in
old binary file formats and
stuff. And we go in
and we figure out those
formats and we create integrations
to those system. So that
certainly from my perspective makes
the engineering problem that you're
solving like much harder. Like
I immediately thought to myself,
Oh, it's match.com for doctors
and patients. The doctors pay,
you know, it's like the
club, right? The ladies get
in free, the men pay.
And except suddenly the ongoing
relationship becomes one of a
very complicated you're plugging in
different API APIs, all into
your aggregate API, but not
all of those practice management
systems are in the cloud.
That will be a good
number of them. Aren't there
packages locally that never expected
to ever give their scheduling
data out, do the doctors
to say, Oh, I've got,
I've got Hansel doc installed.
And it runs in clipper.
I need to go in
and install a windows service
from Zoc doc to go
and suck that flat file
out and send it up.
And are you suddenly writing
software like that? Absolutely. Absolutely.
So we're, you know, I
mean, you know, some of
my guys are sitting there
staring at the matrix, they're
staring at hex files, you
know, in a hex editor
and unwinding where that data
is stored. So it's quite
a challenging problem. And I
mean, but it's also a
good thing, right? I mean,
if, if every practice management
system has some super clean
API, then we wouldn't really
have a business. Right. This
is the hard thing that
we're doing that makes us
sort of, you know, hopefully
unique in this area. Yeah.
And that's where the value
comes in. I mean, that's
where a doctor is going
to say, well, why am
I paying you money? It's
like, well, Hey, I just
got canceled doc to talk
to our backend services. And
you just turn into a
web 2.0, doctor, you should
be happy about that, doc.
Yeah. Yeah. It's interesting because
you know, our web interface
is, is more modern and
is more, you know, user-friendly
than, than some of these
old archaic systems. And so
some of these doctors are
actually, once we get the
integration working, they're actually using
our interface instead of the
own interface that came with
the system, Which is actually
a little scary. Can, can
they actually replace their, a
practice management system or at
least their appointment scheduler with
your stuff? Because I would
think it's one thing to
write an agent and a
custom thing that sucks out
some bee tree file from
an old system and sends
it up in a read
only fashion, but to actually
poke into a system, even
a multi-user one, that's not
expecting someone to be talking
to it. You know, how
was your software doing the
synchronization? Is that nightly? Or
I thought that's an hairy
engineering problem. I would think
It's absolutely every engineering problem.
And no, it's not nightly,
it's real time integration with
these, with these doctor's offices.
And, and yeah, I mean,
basically it's, it's not a
trivial engineering problem and this
is why we're here at
Stanford, you know, career fair.
We're trying to get the
strong guys to come in
and help us with. Yeah.
And, and you're, and you
guys are, you guys are
hiring and it sounds like
you have high a high
bar, but certainly people could
contact you if they think
that they're hardcore enough to
stare at the matrix. What
is your, what is your
stack like, what is your
system run? Oh, sure. So
it's, you know, it's a,
it's a very, you know,
it's a, purist's Microsoft stack.
You could say it's a
SQL server running on, you
know, windows server 2008 and,
and, you know, I S
and asp.net, but we're moving,
you know, we're, we're moving
towards MBC three and, and,
and it's all sharp. Are
you doing, you're doing web
forms now, or are you
doing a different earlier version
of MVC Web forums in
the sense that we use
the, you know, the Microsoft's,
you know, ASP, colon form,
that kind of stuff, right.
It's sort of, you know,
if, look at our sort
of search results page, it's
it's way too, you know,
complex for that. It's very,
you know, Ajax, sickle and
very sort of real time
updating. And so we've written
a lot of custom, you
know, it's a lot of
percent equals, right? It's a
lot of open bracket percent
equals kind of custom stuff
to make the Ajax really
look fun and animated and
et cetera. I see. So
it was a control thing.
It sounds like, it sounds
like you guys need control
stuff. I mean, you're editing,
you're looking at hex type
dumps and you're writing little
services on the, on the
one side, and then you
really wanted serious down to
the bite control on the
client, on the, you know,
as far as the, the
angle brackets that came out
the wire. Yeah, exactly, exactly.
I mean, we've, you know,
we've even done steps to,
you know, to minimize cookies
and minimize the upload of
cookies. And, you know, we
want to make sure an
HTTP get request fits in
one packet. Right. And so,
you know, these are the
levels of tunings that we're
doing because of the amount
of traffic that we, that
we serve. And so, you
know, we, we really kind
of hand, you know, fine
tune the, the optimization of
this stuff. Now I PR
people know that I work
for Microsoft, although the podcast
is mine and Carl Franklin. So
while I do have Microsoft
people in Microsoft technologists on
the show a lot, you
know, I try to keep
it real. And it's interesting
to me that you're a,
you're a mature startup. You're
a couple of years into
it now, is that right?
Yeah. We, we started in
2006 And, but, you know,
you're, you're still not giant,
right. Would you say it's
taken off and you've like,
you've succeeded. Is it finished
or are you, would you
still call yourself? Where are
you in the maturity of
startups, I guess? Sure. You
know, I would say we're,
you know, we're in the,
we're in the growth phase
right now. I think that,
you know, the business model
works, you know, the doctors
like it, they get new
patients, patients of course love
it because they can search
by any criteria, whether, you
know, doctors be able in
the evening or whether they
take some obscure insurance plan,
et cetera. And so, you
know, the business model works
and I think we're just,
you know, we're just trying
to scale it right now.
So we're just trying to,
you know, launch in, in,
you know, we're launching city
after city in, in the
U S and just trying
to get scale right now.
Okay. So back to my
point about working for Microsoft,
I don't, I'm not trying
to be a Microsoft apologist
and kind of be like
I say, keep it real,
but I don't usually think
of people who go to
Stan, you know, startups that
go to Stanford jobs fairs
as being Microsoft. You don't
think of Microsoft being in
the Bay area, you and
on frankly, just be, let's
be Frank. I don't see
a lot of young startups
using Microsoft products until recently
with this BizSpark thing where
they give it away, they
give a lot of stuff
away for free. It, has
that been a challenge for
you? What's your opinion of
like Microsoft as it relates
to the startup community? Yeah.
I mean, for sure it's
been a challenge, it, you
know, for you guys to,
to, to get some traction
in, in the startup community,
you know, I think part
of it is, you know,
the, of course before BizSpark,
you know, if, if it's
two guys in a room
with no budget, you know,
they have the money to
shell out for SQL server
enterprise and et cetera. And
so, you know, that was
reason. One, I think reason
two is kind of this
dogmatic, you know, Microsoft, Oh,
those, you know, those guys,
those, you know, those empire
guys, I'm glad you said
it, cause I didn't want
to say it, you know?
And so part of it's
dogmatic from that point of
view, and of course that's
not, you know, that's never
a good decision. That's never
a good criteria to, you
know, to base any decision.
You know, I sort of
didn't feel that way. And
I wanted to make an
objective evaluation of, of different
technologies when we started in
2007. And, you know, I
came from a Java background
and of course C-sharp is,
you know, very similar to
Java has quite a few
improvements. Of course, I'd probably
get in trouble just for
saying that, but, but you
know, we love C sharp
and, and I think the,
you know, the, the static
nature of, of C-sharp and
Java and that family of
languages that is, you know,
sort of statically bound, I
think that stuff will really
save you when you do
get to scale. So, you
know, we're at 20 engineers
now we're looking to get
to 40 very quickly and,
and, you know, the static
nature of it allows you
to do these compile time
checks and even, you know,
the static code analysis tools
such as FX cop and
independ really allow us to,
you know, ensure code quality
at a highly automated level,
which is really kind of
a savior when, you know,
when you're scaling your engineering
team this quickly. And I
think that, you know, these
dynamic languages, you know, Python,
Ruby, and now of course,
Java script with node. I
think that if you're not
really, really careful, you can
get to a lot of
trouble when you get into
a large, large code base
and have multiple, you know,
lots of developers all crowded
around the same code base,
doing things really quickly. I
think the dynamic nature of
that can kind of lead
to spaghetti unless you're very,
very disciplined about, Well, I've
said before though, pushing, pushing
back a little bit, that,
that I felt that compilation
was just the first unit
test. And it's almost like
a spell check, right. It
doesn't tell you if this
is grammatically correct or semantically
correct or correct at all,
but it does tell you
that it's spelled, right. Do
you think that you thinking
about things in terms of
the compiler, or are you
thinking more in, like you
mentioned independent and static code
analysis, are you using things
like code contracts? Because I
think it is true that
compilation is really simply a
syntactic unit check, but if
you really start being introspective
and looking at the code,
whether it be with aspect
oriented, different things or code
contracts, you can learn a
lot about what's going on
and you can basically save
yourself, put in a safety
net. I mean, do you
have that level of formalization
in your system? Yeah. You
know, let me give you
an example. So, you know,
we wrote our own SQL
level interface to interface with
SQL server. So micro ORM,
micro ORM, and we can
get into, into how that
works in a minute, but,
but basically, you know, we've
replaced SQL command with our
own, you know, Zoc doc
SQL command, which basically, you
know, it's not rocket science.
It just, it, it owns
a SQL command inside it
and it passes all the
calls along. But, but since
it, you know, intercepts those
calls, we can add things
later. Like, you know, you
can measure how many SQL
commands you're executing per second
or per minute, or, you
know, you can see which
ones are hogging, SQL server,
et cetera, et cetera. And
so, you know, that's a
library that's really useful now,
of course, that doesn't stop
someone from still saying, you
know, new SQL connection, a
new SQL command in our
code base. But if you
have FX cop, you can
just say, you know, at
the build time in the
continuous integration process, you say,
you know, you can't call
the constructor of SQL command.
And so that way, if,
if, if an engineer forgets
or it's a new engineer,
who's, you know, somehow didn't
get that guideline the second
day. Right? One of those
that instantly says, no, you
know, you shouldn't be doing
that. You should be writing
Zoc doc SQL command instead
of, you know, the Microsoft
SQL command. And so you
enforced that level of, of,
you know, code accuracy right
there so that nobody can
write a SQL command and,
and sort of bypass the,
the system that we've set
up to do the self
profiling. Hi, this is Scott
coming to you from another
place in time. Are you
using agile practices to manage
your software development? There's lots
of tools in the market
that manage the steps of
a project, but most of
them focus on individual roles,
get ready for a solution
that caters for the success
of the whole team guys
at Tellerik introduced team pulse.
It's an agile project management
tool. That'll help you gather
ideas, estimate plan, track progress
in a common workspace. Finally,
companies, regardless of their size
can use a lightweight and
convenient tool that makes all
the stakeholders work as a
United team. Even if they're
in different countries by combining
intuitive user interface and the
power server light team poles
removes the roadblocks that you
typically face and applying agile
in an effective manner, no
more lost data, no disparate
systems, no lack of critical
analytics regarding the health and
philosophy project. See if yourself
get a free copy for
five users in one project
at tellerik.com/team pulse. And please
do thank Tellerik for supporting
Hansel minutes on their Facebook
fan page, facebook.com/t L E
R I K Tellerik. We
do appreciate it. They wouldn't
be a handsome and it's,
if there wasn't teller helping
us, I've always thought that
that FX cop was one
of those things. It wasn't
used enough, but I felt
a little bit like it
was too hard to write
a role and maybe it
was just my own laziness,
but I just felt like
there'd be this utopia where
I would have like 30
or 40 good solid FX
cop rules that would just
kind of just tighten the
screws a little bit, make
things a little tinier. How
many do you have, and
did you find it difficult
to build up a library
of FX cop rolls? Yeah.
You know, there's a balance.
I think there's, there's a
video somewhere where, you know,
someone has written, someone works
somewhere where they have, you
know, a hundred FX cop
rules and they write something
that's three lines. And then
it says, you know, you
haven't initialized this variable and
you haven't done this thing.
And it complains so much
that by the time they're
finished, you know, making all
the ethics rules, ethics, cop
rules, happy, the thing has
swelled to like 25 lines
from three lines. And so
you have to find, and
so, you know, you have
to find this balance of,
of, you know, enforcing what
you want, but not making
the rules so arduous or
overreaching that, you know, it's
just this giant pain just
to get things to work
with FX cop. So, so
it's an interesting balance and
it's something that, you know,
that we, we tune every
day. But, you know, to
just give you, you know,
the short answer is that
most of our FX cup
rules are really, really simple
like that. We've, you know,
we just sort of, you
know, we don't want anyone
using SQL command. So we
have our Zoc doc come
in and we don't, you
know, we've written our own
in the MVC world. We've
written our own doc doc
controller that overrides or inherits
from the regular controller. And
we don't want anyone to
use the regular controller. You
know, we don't want anyone
to extend the regular controller.
We want them all to
extend the Zocdoc controller. So,
you know, that's another rule.
You can't extend controller, you
have to extend the.dot controller.
And so it's just those
kinds of rules that allows
us to have that consistency.
And then of course the
doc dot controller can do
the same. It's analogous to
the Zoc doc SQL command
in that it can, you
know, it'll, it'll do its
own profiling and seeing, you
know, if one page is
getting hit exceptionally hard, et
cetera. So it sounds like
though you have a very
specific business model, but you're
describing a few things like
a standard doc doc specific
controller, it's doc doc specific
SQL connection that are solving
problems that are not specific
to patients and doctors, which
I think seems to be
a startup thing. I don't
know if it's a young
person thing or a startup
or startup thing, but the
idea of, well, we're gonna
start a startup and it's
gonna, it's gonna marry doctors
and patients, but first we
need a logging component. And
then from there, like, you
know, the not invented here
happens. Did you see that
happen as a startup? And
is that part of the
shorter process or part of
the.net ecosystem that caused that?
Yeah, I mean, I think
you're, you're completely right. You
know, these problems are not,
are not specific to us.
You know, we have the
micro RM and the Zoc
doc controller, like you said,
are absolutely things that would
be useful to more than
just us. And they are
sort of generic tools. You
know, we do want to
open source these kinds of
things. And I think we
will, as soon as we
get the bandwidth to kind
of just clean them up
and make them presented to
the, to the community, certainly
we're not philosophically opposed to
open sourcing our generic things.
And, and you're right. You
know, it's interesting that, you
know, stack overflow is down
the street from us in
New York city and reading through
their blogs. I found that
we were inventing some of
these generic things in parallel
to them. And so, you
know, I ran into Joel
at, at, at one of
these, you know, startup-y convention
type things. And I told
him, I was like, Hey,
look, we're doing some of
the same things here. And,
and then I had a
long conversation with Mark Ravel
about, you know, the micro
ORM that they've built, you
know, the, you know, they
built a stamper micro RM,
which was almost identical to
the one that we came
up with independently, as well
as the, the mini profiler
that they wrote. And we
came up with the same
thing independently. And so yeah,
a lot of these tools
should be used by more
companies and I'm not sure
why, I'm not sure why,
you know, in 2010 and
2011, that we have to
invent these things. Do you
think it's specific to.net or
do you think it's just
startup stuff? The reason I,
or just people just, you
know, I want to write
my own thing because I'm
trying to get my head
around that, that I know
I've talked to two Ruby
guys and they'll say, Oh,
well, we did this, we
did that. And this is
the best practice, but, you
know, we didn't feel there
was anything in the universe
that would meet our needs
and then they go off
and they write something from
scratch. You know, it doesn't
seem to me to be
specific to covid.net. I mean,
I know that everybody though
wants to blaze a new
trail, even on old things.
There's a story that I've
told before about how I
was working in finance. And
we were doing online retail
banking, which is extremely specific.
And one of the young
men wanted to create a
dropdown, a calendar dropdown control.
And he's like, I'm going
to spend the next two
days where he can get
the world's greatest dropdown control.
And I just had to
remind them, we're not a
component vendor. We hate there's
component vendors that will do
that. And here's one for
$400. So let's say you're
valued at a hundred dollars
an hour. You have exactly
four hours to write the
world's greatest one. Otherwise I'm
just going to buy it,
you know, keeping focused on
the business as something that
you, as a CTO need
to do. How do you,
how do you find that
balance? And do you think
it's specific to Danette? Yeah,
I think that, yeah, I
mean, what you're saying is
Kurt is absolutely right. And,
you know, we shouldn't be
building things that, that we
can buy or that are,
you know, open sourced. You
know, one of my friends,
David Padbury, who's a, it
was quite a Danette expert
here in New York, made an
interesting observation, which was that
stack overflow in us. We're
in the, we're in the
minority in terms of the
market, because there's not a
lot of companies that do
get this volume of traffic.
And so, you know, a
solution like hibernate might work
for them because they don't
need to have such fine
tuned control over the SQL.
You know, if it comes
up with something that's a
little bit inefficient, it's probably
okay. And so this micro
RM thing really comes out
of us needing to hand
tune our own SQL and
not to have, you know,
have the risk that the
ORM comes up with something
inefficient. And, but, you know,
for, I'd say for most
companies, you know, that's probably
okay because they're not getting
the, you know, the, the
millions of hits that, that
stack overflow or us get.
And so, and so, you
know, perhaps there hasn't been
such a market, such a
huge market for this micro
or M that, you know,
that, that some company came
up with a solution for
it, and that's why we're
inventing it. And the other
thing is that the, you
know, like you said, there's
just not a lot of
startupy, you know, sort of
high traffic.net websites in general.
And so, you know, so
I guess there hasn't been
a huge market need for,
for a micro ORM. Yeah.
There are definitely a lot
of big dotnet sites as
I move around the community
and visit a lot of
folks. I find that it's
just that we haven't heard
of them. Right. You know,
there's a lot of big
sites that just don't, that
are big enterprises that don't
talk about stuff. I was
at a, at a very
large local shoe company here
in Portland, whose name you
would have heard of. And
they were doing something in.net
and they were saying, all
right, well, you gotta need
to go do this very
specific shoe thing. And let's
talk about logging. And it
got me wondering, is that
a problem that Microsoft should
solve? Is that a problem
that open source has solved
and they should just go
and use log for net,
or is it, they should
go and use the logging
blocks, the enterprise blocks from
Microsoft, or did.net not come
out of the box with
enough something, you know, it
was kind of a damned
if you do damned if
you don't situation there where
we might release something and
find it wanting, and then
people will just pull it
out and use their own
thing, or we produce nothing
at all. And then people
don't use logging at all.
Yeah. I mean, you know,
I can tell you that
it's another good example of,
because, you know, we wrote
our own simple logging thing.
And the reason is because
if we use one of
the, you know, one of
the existing logging packages, you
know, for example, we want
to just count all our
hits. Right. And so if
we use one of the,
one of the basic logging
packages, it would just be
writing so many hits because
it's just the nature of
how much we get per
second. And so, you know,
we wrote a logging, you
know, again, it's simple, like
it sort of falls under
the rule that you said,
like, you know, if your
rate is a hundred dollars
an hour, then you, you
know, you can spend eight
hours on this and you're
probably still, you know, okay.
So it's that level of,
you know, of simplicity, but
it has to aggregate before
it, even before it writes
anything. Right. Because otherwise, if
it was writing every time
we asked it to log,
it would just constantly be
writing to disk and, you
know, the files would get
huge and they, you know,
they would get fragmented and
then, you know, the disc
would start thrashing and et
cetera. And so this thing
aggregates before it writes anything
to disc and right, so
it'll say, you know, it
won't write every time you
got to hit on, on
the homepage, right? It'll, it'll
count the number of hits
you get on the homepage
and then write that once
a minute or et cetera.
And so, you know, rather
than try to figure out
how to get that to
happen in, in one of
existing logging frameworks, it, you
know, it was only a
few hours of our time
to get that, to work
in a simple logging system.
Someone mentioned a term to
me recently, I thought it
was really interesting and they
called it decision fatigue. And
they said that one of
the things that catches programmers
by surprise, especially as they,
as they kind of get
older or they get under
the gun, get, you know,
get pressure put upon them,
is that the actual fatigue
of having to make a
decision. So like in your
example, we could go and
we know exactly what the
problem is. We know exactly
how to solve it. We
could go and do all
of the, the analysis and
the work, and perhaps the
legal leg work to figure
out if we can use
this or that or the
other thing, or we could
go and do a big
procurement thing. It's funny to
go and put together the
$500, one would need to
purchase a piece of software,
not to mention the financial
analysis of whether it's the
correct software is, is a
huge amount of effort to
get 500 bucks to go
and buy a piece of
software, but a developer can
burn five hours by taking
a really long lunch. Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, that's an
interesting observation, you know, we
don't, you know, we're not
at that size yet where,
you know, we need to
sort of have, you know,
procurement, if something costs $500,
I'll, I'll just, you know,
I'll just buy it on
my, or my credit card
on my, you know, my
corporate credit card. And we
won't go through a diet,
a giant decision process there.
So hopefully we never, you
know, we never get into
the situation where we're filling
out procurement request forms and
things, Well, somewhere around a
hundred employees, I think that's
going to happen to you.
There's nothing you're gonna be
able to do. No, we
should, we should talk again
in a, in a few
months and I'll let you
know how it's turned out,
but, but yeah, certainly evaluating,
you know, all of the
logging systems and picking one
would be, you know, even
if they're all free, it's
a few hours, you know,
it's at least a few
hours by itself. Right. And
so to also just build
it yourself in a few
hours, something that, you know,
will just work is not,
is not outlandish when you,
you know, of course, you
know, there's exceptions to it,
right? Like we're not going
to write our own Jason
serializer because that would, that
would not be a four
hour project. Right. That would
be a big project. And
so, you know, you have
to make that decision about,
you know, whether it's, it
is in fact, a few
hour project, Is that, is
that the limb, is that
the litmus test, how, how
many hours it will take
to go and do this
thing? Yeah. I mean, you
know, if you think about
the right, so take them
out. The Jason serializer right
there, there's, there's one that
works already and it does
what we need. It does,
you know, it, it, it
does it at the speed
we needed at the scale.
We need it. And, and,
and, and to write one,
yourself would actually be fairly
complicated because of, you know,
if you start thinking about
object graphs and, you know,
you have to like recursively
follow, you know, the object
graph, but then, you know,
a child object could point
to his parent also. So
you have to not like
go back up the tree
and, you know, it could
get quite complicated quite quick.
And so, and so, you
know, in that situation, you
know, we're not going to
write own Jason serializer and,
and, you know, because it's
not, you know, a few
hour project. And so, you
know, you have to make
that, you know, you have
to make that judgment call,
but, you know, hopefully we're,
we're evaluating properly and making
the right calls there. It's
definitely sounds like a lot
of challenge. And how big
are you guys now after,
after three or four years?
Yeah, so, you know, we
just did our, our, our
series C you know, 50,
we raised a $50 million round
from DST. You have to,
you're gonna have to back
up and remember that. Not
only do a lot of
our listeners not know the
startup world, but they're not
going to know those acronyms.
So what's the series C
what's DST and congratulations on
$15 million. Oh, thanks. Sorry. Yeah,
sometimes I get so caught
up in, in our own
startup world. So series C
means it's our third round
of funding. We take an
investment of $50 million from a
company called, you know, from,
from an investor called DST
and DST is, you know,
they're invested in Facebook and
Twitter, Airbnb, and a couple
of, you know, sort of
other high profile, high profile
websites. So, so we're very
excited to have them as
a partner and we're moving
forward with them. And in
terms of head count, you
know, we're about 150, probably
a little bit more. That
was, that was as of
last month and about 20
engineers. But like I said,
we're trying to get to
40 very, very quickly here.
And then, and then 80
after that. So there's a
lot of interesting engineering challenges
here. And so we're trying
to grow that team very
quickly. Wow. That's great. And
how long did this take?
I mean, w what is
the, what is the power
curve look like? I mean,
were you just like, it
was you and a buddy
and a garage, and now
you're 150 people. How did
that happen over the last
four years? Yeah, absolutely. And,
you know, sometimes I get
kind of a vertigo and
I think about it, but
that's absolutely how it started.
We started in 2007, you
know, my co founder was
on an airplane and his,
and his eardrum burst when
they landed. And so he
was in severe pain, severe
ear pain, and could not
find a doctor in New York
city that would see him
an ear nose, throat doctor.
And he was like, this
is ridiculous. There's gotta be,
you know, some ear, nose,
throat doctor in Manhattan that
has, you know, the availability
to see me. And, but
he couldn't find one. So,
so he contacted me and
said, you know, we should
both quit our jobs and
do this. So it was,
and, you know, we have
a third co founder who
was a former doctor. And
so it was just the
three of us in a
room for, you know, for
almost a year. And, and,
you know, and then it,
it, you know, we did
our first round of, of
funding in late 2008. And
then, you know, then it
kind of took off from
there. Aye, aye, aye. Aye.
I, I did that for
awhile. I did that. How
many, how many, I'm trying
to think, how many internet
bubbles ago, you know, like
94 and 95, eight hundred.com
gear.com. You know, we just
had a good time. It
was just like the pre
Amazon, right. When, you know,
when you could do anything,
you know, like when, when
all you needed to do
a startup was a domain
name and all you need
now is a domain name
without a vowel, you know,
so many things. Yeah, yeah,
yeah. That's right. Yeah. I'm
actually, you know, I was
actually around for that, that
first iteration as well. I
was, you know, I was
in the Bay area in
99 and I did a
couple of startups that didn't
do, didn't do that. Great.
But, but I was, you
know, I remember those heady
times as well, So fun.
I think I got, like,
I had a couple of
investments in a couple of
release startups. I think like
the biggest startup that I
did was like, I made
$2,500 on mail.com. You know,
like, you know, mail.com went
big and get big, was
like, you know, a couple
of grand for the contractors.
So it's like a job.
Yeah. I never saw any
big exits out of those
either. So hopefully this is
the one that thinks doc
doc is, you know, it's
doing well. So, so Well,
that's fantastic. Well, great to
know that you're there, that
you're hiring and that folks
can check you out at
Zoc doc and assume can
also find you on, on
Twitter. Are you guys up
there? Oh yeah, absolutely. We're
just, you know, at SOC
doc and yeah, we're hiring,
so it's just sort of
the shameless plug, but if
any, you know, if you
feel like you're out there
and you're a strong dotnet
and C sharp engineer and
then get in touch with
us. Absolutely. Brilliant. Thanks so
much, Nick, for chatting with
me today, this has been
enough. I'll see you again
next week.